# Data for Model Generation of the Model in MESA

Created by: 
EPA1352-G13-A2

## Introduction

The data folder contains three different data files. the roads.csv data file and the BMMS_overview.xlsx data file form the basis of the used data for the model. These data files will be adjusted and finally merged into the input_data_n1.csv data file. 

The transport model for EPA1352 Advanced Simulation course Assignment 2, takes this `csv` input data file that specifies the infrastructure model components to be generated. The data format in the input_data_n1.csv file which is being  used by the model is described here. 

## Format

|     Column | Description                                              |
|-----------:|:---------------------------------------------------------|
|         id | **Unique ID** of the component                           |
|       road | On which road does the component belong to               |
|    LRPName | **Unique ID** of the component                           |
|     length | Length of the object in meters                           |
|   chainage | Exact location of the component whithin the road         |
|        lon | Longitude in Decimal Degrees                             |
|        lat | Latitude in Decimal Degrees                              |
| model_type | Type (i.e. class) of the model component to be generated |
|       name | Name of the object                                       |
|  condition | Name of the object                                       |


The column `road` is used by the model generation to classify model components by roads, i.e., on which road does a component belong to. The model generation assumes that the infrastructure model components of the same road is ordered sequentially. This means, e.g. in `input_data_n1`, component with ID number`1` is connected to component with ID number `2`, that is connected to component with ID number`3`, that is connected to component with ID number`4`, etc., all of which are on road `N1` in this assignment, but this system could be used for multiple roads. 

The columns `length` and `chainage` have similar characteristics for the links between the bridges, since the length of paths is generated by the difference in chainage between these two points. The length of bridges is given in the BMMS_overview file. For both links and bridges, the chainage is a tool with information for the exact location of the class or component in a series. 

The column `model_type` is used by the model generation to identify which class of components to be generated. The `model_type` labels used in this column must be consistent with the labels in the `generate_model` routine. De type is either a source, sink, bridge or link.

The rest of the information is used to instantiate the components (objects). 

  