# Data for Model Generation of Simple Transport Model Demo in MESA

Created by: 
EPA1352-G13-A2

## Introduction

The experiment folder contains both the input file for the experiments and the results files. The `experimental_input.csv` file contains the input for all the scenarios in the model. Scenarios are focussed on the bridges, i.e. the failure chance of bridges. Each scenario contains other chances for failures per type of bridge. The `base case` has zero chance of failure for all the types of bridges, while `scenario 8` contains the highest chances for failures. Finally the `visuals.py` file is made in order to create boxplots out of the generated data for each experiment. 

## Underlying files

The `experimental_input.csv` file is implemented in the `components.py` file in the model folder. In this manner, the models gets information about the scenario used in the running model. 

The experiment results  in the experiment folder are generated by running the model in the `model_run.py` file. This model_run file will export the files with the data created towards towards the experiment folder. 

## Bridges data collection and analysis

As explained in the other README files, there is an expansion of the model in order to analyse individual bridges for the delay time they generate. The results of the running model are shown in the `scenario8_bridge_results.csv` file. This data set is analysed in the `visuals_bridges.py` file. As one can see in the name of the data file, only scenario 8 is used for this analysis. Scenario 8 is taken for this analysis, since scenario 8 contains the most chance for bridges to fail and, therefore, create delay time. 